The Joe Rogan experience.
That is what, what I like, why,
why conservatives have to care more about government? That's something I like,
one of my pet causes is look like we are living in a society where
the culture is against you. Like we are living in a society where, you know,
the cultural elite, the commanding Heights of American culture,
and you're living in a society where you don't have real power there. And so,
and you're also living a society where you have corporate America look at these
protests right now, Amazon supports the protests, right?
Like Amazon supports the protests, Citibank CEO.
It's it's the people with the most accumulated capital in America are
also on the side of this protest. Why? Because in my view,
they use identity politics and racial politics.
They want to split the country along those lines every single day that we're
talking about identity politics and having debates about race.
Really want to split the country along the lines.
I think they just want support for their company.
And they think that it's a good PR move.
It's a good brand. It's a brand new move. And here's the thing is,
and this goes back to the coalitions of the parties, right?
So the democratic party caters largely to these like white affluent women
basically is like the base that they mostly, right. I know this space. Well,
I'm closely affiliated.
With the space.
The joke, the joke of base, right? And so, you know,
for those, for people who are more or less doing well, as things are right,
they've got their health insurance,
they've got a job where they're treated like a human being with humanity.
They can get their UberEATS, they can get whatever they want on demand, right?
Their way of virtue signaling is on identity issues.
And if you only confine the conversation on
policing too, like let's deal with this. Let's, let's have more body cameras.
Like if you keep it in that lane, that's very comfortable for them, right?
If you have a broader conversation about a society that, you know,
has decimated unions has decimated working class power about who has power
in the society and why like that's more of a threat to them. So yes,
for corporate brands, it's very comfortable to have like,
let's have a diversity initiative. It's less comfortable to say no, no,
let's actually value the worth of everyone.
Let's actually have a different set of power.
Let's actually not have corporations able to give on lemon and limited money and
buy off our politicians and then be able to go work on your boards, et cetera,
et cetera. Like that's a very non-threatening conversation.
That's how you end up with was a bank of America who sponsored the movement,
continues what black lives matter. The movement continues with DeRay McKesson,
who is a prominent activist.
The cynical is there, uh,
another reason why Amazon would support this protest,
that this is kind of the death of retail. I mean,
this is one of the final nails in the coffin of retail.
When you think about investing your money in a brick and mortar store with a
glass window, after all this horseshit.
I, I won't cite.
Who told me this was a very prominent person in the field of economics and was
like,
my conspiracy theory is that Jeff Bezos wants 10 to 15% unemployment
because then what's the best job in the world, Joe, in rural place,
Amazon warehouse.
Dropping off those bricks. Who's better at delivering than Amazon,
Amazon prime delivery.
You should, you should be more cynical because that, I mean, look,
how else do we get to a point where like the shell gas company sponsors a 1619
project event with Nicole, Hannah Jones are around with, so the 16, 19 project,
oh man, this is a real rabbit hole. So this is like, this is the New York times.
But at this thing that 16, 19 projects,
the year that the first slaves were brought to America and it was about
reforming the way that we talk about race and slavery in America. And so the,
the very first essay which she wrote,
which is very controversial is when she claimed that the reason for the American
revolution was because people wanted to keep their slaves,
not because of control from England. And all that, what happened is,
is that a bunch of very prominent historians are in the American revolution,
the civil war, and much more pan to the essay. They said,
this thing needs to be corrected. They corrected it.
Even then she still won the Pulitzer prize for journalism or for commentary.
I want to say for that specific essay, which was, which was there.
And they partnered,
I think it was with the Pulitzer center in order to create curriculum that
schools are now using to teach. Now, this was attacked. The 16, 19 project,
not at first by conservatives, of course can serve as were off.
It was attacked by the inner world socialist website by Trotskyites,
by Marxists and socialists.
And the reason why is because they saw it for what I see it,
which is that it's a cynical attempt in order to say,
America is an irredeemably racist nation.
That that is the only single and most pressing problem that we have in our
society. And if you hold that frame,
then you don't ask questions about corporate power in America.
You don't ask questions. Even of leaders,
a friend of our show is that Jelani had a fantastic appearance on our show.
I really encouraged everybody to go watch it where he talks about,
if you look at the black community in America,
which is what had the most pressing impact on their life economically and
destroyed so much of their livelihood.
It was the foreclosures under Barack Obama.
And it was the wipe out of black home ownership and black wealth that the,
that the 16, 19 project and the framework of politics that, that original sin,
which of course is the original sin, is the,
be all end all for why we are where we are today.
Absolves current political leaders and recent political leaders like Barack
Obama himself,
or like leaders in the city of Atlanta or leaders in the city of Baltimore and
that it absolves public policy, which is non-racial. And so when I say that,
why does shale gas company feel comfortable sponsoring an event in which the
main message is that is that America is an irredeemably racist nation because
they, that is one more event,
which is being talked about in the political zeitgeists by the cultural elite,
which is not talking about their own power in the marketplace.
And if you look at who, what is the,
the predominant control in your life in America?
It is about capital. It's not about race. It's about class class,
but class disproportionately affects people of color in America.
And so the way I look at it as that identity politics is so cynically
grafted on by the billionaire and the corporate class.
There's a reason they're all super woke and it's because they want it to be this
way so that we don't talk about their power in our society.
And I think this was a very sin,
like the way this all happened is kind of a crazy,
because it started out in the sociology departments and the 1970s have all
of these crazy, you know, these from the post, uh, and the sixties era,
they were, you know,
they in the sociology departments and they started cranking out all these
absolutely crazy papers around, you know, feminism and identity politics,
racial politics, all of that. And then what happened is,
is that the corporate America and other cultural elites, first of all,
were being indoctrinated in the university system.
They were going to go work at places like McKinsey and others.
And they brought their racial politics and their identity politics with them.
But that there had to be recognition from the top,
from people like Goldman Sachs, if Goldman Sachs,
if the pressure on them is to stop the way that they trade derivatives or to
put a black person on their board while they continue to do the derivatives
trading, they're going to choose that every single time. Right?
So they want to direct the conversation in that direction.
It absolves them for the sins, both, you know,
towards the economically disenfranchised in America.
But it's also a very cynical tool, which is that,
why is it that you see all these corporations scope, you know,
tweeting out black lives matter, Instagram, blackout, all that stuff.
How is it that you see like Knight, you know, Nike,
isn't this the great irony that Nike, you know,
went and did the whole Colin Kaepernick thing, like ad campaign.
And they still got all their looted and this and this, mostly it should go go,
right? I mean, I, I think that is that's the perfect example of,
they try to cynically use identity politics in America,
split people apart to protect their power.
And if we start to understand that it's a lot more about class in America than
it is about race. I'm not saying that there is not racial problems in America,
racism that you know, all of this, but that if you focus on these classes,
shoes, it's the best way to help people up to people who are disenfranchised,
who are disproportionately people of color,
but to help everybody that's a much more,
I just don't know how else we can live in a multifaceted multifaceted
nation like this, which is, you know, economically heterogeneous,
ethnically people, you know, so many people of different ethnicity,
so many people of different religions. So many, I mean,
I am the son of Indian immigrants. I feel fully and completely American.
That's an amazing thing that didn't just happen.
It was the product of a result of very specific political choices that we made
over time. And it's moving towards that, that we needed to go towards.
And that's what,
but by doing so what you've talked about many times about economic,
not just distribution, but about the,
who has power in society working class or not,
which is the corporate America can use the identity politics in order to make
sure that the working class doesn't continue to have that.
And so you can't separate class and race because it's not an accident of course,
that, um,
black and brown people are disproportionally the lower income and poor and
working class in society. I mean, I,
I see it much more simply sort of like what you were saying. It's,
it's virtuous, it's this like brand a branding exercise. Right.
And there's this whole idea.
I always think it's hilarious on the right of flake,
Facebook and Twitter or progressive, or they're liberal companies,
or Amazon's a liberal coming in, like, what are you talking about?
Amazon treats their workers like. They bust you. And he's like,
this is not a left company. Right.
But because they use those sort of branding tools and tweet out black lives
matter, which is no threat to them. And in fact,
as you're pointing out may very much benefit their bottom line.
Ultimately they're sort of,
they get all the benefits of being for progress and being for this rising
coalition in America without actually having to do anything,
that's going to benefit their bottom line. Yeah.